Well, we think we're live in this program.
We'll find out here in a moment.
We didn't have any audio during the intro
to the show,
but I got a thumbs up that says
we do.
We are not, however,
live streaming on Facebook.
I am considering abandoning Facebook
altogether.
The platform is insane,
and I don't do insane well.
I now have three flags in the last...
week less than a week half a week
all of which have to do with either
cyber security or altering media when
one hundred percent of the issues were in the
feed that they provided so they provided a
two images uh that evidently had
content in them that violated their
cybersecurity rules,
but they know that I did not alter
them.
I simply commented on them.
They served them up.
And this last one they said was altered
media.
I didn't alter the media.
They know I didn't alter the media.
I simply commented on it.
You can't function in an environment
that's insane.
I'm not going to expose Yahowah's message to
an environment that is insane.
It's frustrating also on X because on X,
they are so gross in what they will
allow.
Matter of fact,
the same thing is true with Facebook.
I republished four posts today on
Facebook.
that were absolutely repulsive.
People condemning Israel,
calling Jews all sorts of horrible names,
and Facebook allows it.
Hatred towards Israel, no problem.
Serves it up,
not only serves up my feed,
but these are promoted because I don't
follow these individuals.
It's Facebook who is distributing them,
promoting them.
And it's horrible, antisemitic,
hateful rhetoric.
And it's not only allowed,
It's encouraged.
What kind of an environment is that?
It made us just repulsive.
You feel like you need a shower every
time you go in.
X is the home of the most repulsive
and hateful anti-Semites in the world.
Candace Owens, that's where she thrives.
Tucker Carlson, Nick Fuentes.
They're all there, one after another.
And I could list a hundred names and
the presentations that are so vicious
towards Jews and towards Israel.
And then all of the utter trash that
is thrown out about Trump as he is
destroying the world.
And it's all allowed.
No problem.
Big reach.
Oh boy, you want to spew lies.
X is your account.
Heck, even the owner does.
Tell the truth?
No.
They'll make sure that your reach is
nothing.
Makes it an echo chamber for friends and
family.
It's not worth it.
And so I am this close to saying
I'm not going to post again on Facebook
or on X. Now,
it doesn't make YouTube good.
Well, in terms of these Yahowah Vlogs,
the overwhelming preponderance are viewed
on YouTube.
The YouTube numbers are actually
extraordinary considering how unpopular
our message is,
how unpopular Yahowah has always been,
how the religious and the political and
the conspiratorial and the anti-Semitic
have been vehemently opposed to God and
how
vile they are on those platforms,
it's truly amazing that we have the reach
and frequency and audience that we do.
So we will continue to provide video
content for them,
although just less of it,
because I think that we're providing so
much that it's creating a...
Too much content for the size of the
audience so that there aren't sufficient
reactions and response and engagement with
each hour of the Yahowah Blog.
So I will be dealing with that as
well.
I had a long conversation with Joe.
I don't know how many of you have
been to the website recently,
but it is spectacular.
For example,
there's a new feature on the Dead Sea
Scrolls that is truly amazing.
Not only did Joe integrate the two most
important aspects of studying the Dead Sea
Scrolls,
he made the whole process beyond that
integrated.
He has taken one of the presentations that
shows where there is confirmation
questions on the Dead Sea Scrolls,
where there is content in the Dead Sea
Scrolls that's not in the Masoretic Text,
and then context that is in the Masoretic
Text that is not in the Dead Sea
Scrolls,
and he's highlighted them by color,
by verse, by chapter and verse.
And he's even made it possible,
if you click on that orange and the
red squares that designate which things
are what,
you can search an entire chapter of any
book in the Towrah, Prophets,
and Psalms just for the disparities,
just for the differences between and the
discrepancies between the Masoretic text
and the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
which is how I've always used the Dead
Sea Scrolls Bible and other tools when
writing Yada Yahowah.
He has now automated that process.
It brings up the differences,
which is the places where you need to
make the corrections.
And then he went one step further.
He integrated,
we found a transcript actually of the Dead
Sea Scrolls.
I had to go back to the pictures
of them.
No one has ever done a transcript.
So if there was a difference,
I would look at the word that they
translated it into and reverse engineer
that back into Hebrew.
But he's actually found somebody that did
a transcription of it.
And we've set the transcription of the
Dead Sea Scrolls where it has different
colors for what was in a scroll versus
what was supplied.
And I have been translating Hebrew so
long, I know what those words mean,
but the average person using our site's
not going to know what they mean.
So what we're doing now is taking these
words that are fully conjugated,
they have pronouns and prepositions and
stems, for example,
all integrated in the words.
You can't copy and paste them in even
the Hebrew spelling into a place like
Strong's, but an AI can translate them.
And we're going to even allow you to
be able to click on any one of
those Hebrew words in its fully conjugated
form and have a definition of it.
What an unbelievably powerful study tool.
And Joe has created this just out of
a discussion that we had on,
he wanted to know how I went about
studying.
Because what we did is we added it
to the translation presentation.
where you have now entire chapters
presented in succession with every
rendering of every verse,
one after another,
with the link to the context from which
it was removed so that you can see
the commentary on it as well in all
of those various places.
I mean, it's absolutely brilliant.
And when Perry finishes his transition
from the apostrophes indicating an Aleph
or an Ein to actually designating them by
a superscript of the original version of
the Aleph to the Ein,
we'll have a linkable glossary to the
translations.
Another wonderful tool.
And the glossary now is up and fully
functional and has all of Kirk's
definitions and soon we'll add also
definitions from the books themselves and
you'll have both.
It's just amazing as a study tool.
The timeline which will flush out with
more video.
And so,
And we also have the full music index,
which is beautiful.
What they call promos,
but I would call invitations to be part
of this journey to know Yahowah.
Beautiful journey.
Video presentations,
animated presentations that are usually in
the minute range.
They're just beautifully done musically,
graphically, lyrically.
We're going to have a whole library of
them placed on the site.
It's one of the things we're rounding up
at this point.
But the only thing that keeps the website
itself from being our primary home is
interaction.
For example,
now we have a Facebook page that I
use that no one goes to.
It's just a Facebook page for the purpose
of feeding a page called the blog on
the website.
and it takes it whatever I present on
that one page and it presents it there.
Kind of done a little bit awkward and
that it does kind of one day at
a time and it presents my commentary
before it shows some of the pictures and
sometimes they have to feed in over time.
And we'll have to see how that develops
particularly with me walking away from
Facebook.
um at least hugely diminishing the time
that i spent there which is kind of
a shame because it's been a wonderful
forum for communication between family uh
but you you just can't function there it's
um uh essentially impossible or we're just
gonna have to turn it into nothing but
uh this is what Yahowah says and uh
and not talk about the world but that
would be very difficult in this
environment because
It's the world that we have to talk
about to open up the subject of Yahowah.
But anyway,
what we want to do is to see
if we can make those posts interactive as
they would be in a social media channel
where I can write something,
show a picture and our short video and
then
You all can comment on it and comment
among each other on it and add to
it and discuss what your thoughts are on
a subject,
whether it's a fun subject or something
very serious about, yeah,
it was testimony or something in the news.
So if we can develop that,
then there really is no need for any
social media platform other than a video
streaming service.
And we'll use YouTube for as long as
that's possible,
although YouTube is tough.
not so much on their thought police
anymore because we don't post anything on
Islam there.
They would be opposed to the truth about
Islam.
But because of the fact that their
verification process and how they go about
verifying sites is just a nightmare to
work with.
And there is zero customer service.
It's just like Facebook.
Literally, and X,
there is no customer service.
So you are managed by a machine.
It's not very pleasant.
But we will continue to post there.
And if worse gets to worse,
we'll post on a place that virtually no
one goes, like Rumble.
And we'll pull in everything that we do
in terms of these vlogs into the website
from a place like Rumble,
where there aren't thought police,
there aren't
countless restrictions,
and we'll build that out.
And after building that out,
then we'll be in a position to show
it on the website.
What I'm trying to tell you is the
website is gonna be our home.
And what I'm looking to do is to
create the kind of interactive environment
that's so enjoyable,
was so enjoyable on Facebook before there
was the mass condemning of covenant
members.
Now, of course,
there is the possibility that all of this
is nefarious because we have seen messages
back and forth from the mother goddess
cult that says that they are deliberately
trying to mess with our social media and
to hamper it and to screw with the
algorithms and to disparage us and attack
us on social media.
They've admitted to doing so.
Should they be doing so?
Should this be their work?
Then the price they will pay
with their souls will be egregious.
So that is also a possibility,
but it doesn't really matter.
If Facebook is subject to that sort of
thing, then they can have it.
So anyway,
that's the process is I want to cultivate
a vastly better environment on the
website.
Now,
if you go back just a year and
a half ago,
That's really all we had.
We had Yada Yah radio,
which was just audio that had a chat
room and people got together once a week
and could chat and radio,
which is vastly inferior to the show we
do now that so many people comment on
YouTube.
In fact,
about eighty five percent of the
interaction during the show is on YouTube.
that what we had was only that and
our website.
And the website had one-tenth to offer
what the current website does.
So the thought is that we will develop
the website.
We're actually working now with Claude to
create an answer capability for the
website whereby
you have a question,
you can pose it through the AI and
it will analyze the translations,
it'll analyze the conclusions,
it will pull together the data on the
website and seek to answer your questions
in an informed and rational way,
guided by the prompts that it's provided.
Be another nice feature,
but that's what I'm leaning towards
because
don't do insane well and what i'm finding
is insane it's reprehensible i've just i'm
disgusted with the whole lot particularly
when you read and you see how much
is just appalling that is presented on
those sites that is actually promoted by
those sites and that their most popular
Posters,
most popular contributors are the most
egregious individuals.
Anyway, that's our future.
We have been collecting data on all of
the social media channels and we will deal
with it.
The fact is that we have the growth
in social media over the past year,
with a message that is anti-Islam,
anti-Christianity, anti-MAGA,
anti-Marxist, anti-conspiratorial,
anti-Judaism, pro-Israel,
which is the least popular country in the
world by a long margin, and pro-Yahowah,
that is a message that has never been
popular.
You know,
you put all that together and the audience
that we have is surprisingly large and
loyal and pays attention and listens and
comments.
And so, you know, overall,
in terms of the reach of the Yahowah
blog,
I'm exceedingly optimistic and pleased.
It is much better than what I would
have expected.
And, you know, initially, the...
Response on some of the social media sites
was, well, this is tolerable.
And now it's not.
So I don't have any specific instructions
from God as to where we have to
be and where we should not be.
And all I have is that I want
you to do this vlog and we're doing
the vlog and it's being posted and
received well, particularly on YouTube.
And we'll see how it develops on other
channels.
But at this point, you know,
we're fairly anemic on TikTok and on
Patron and currently on Rumble and on
Telegram and on others,
there are lots of places where our number
of subscribers is quite small,
but there's lots of places where, well,
it has for years, it just went nowhere,
nowhere.
And then we had a team come together
and start to manage these things and they
have exploded favorably.
So we're just going to narrow our,
our outreach a bit in this.
And if you out there,
you have some suggestions, I'm all ears.
I'm happy to hear from you.
I am not, however,
the type that is going to try to
negotiate with Facebook or X to create a
better environment.
It's just not worth my attention.
So I'm not going to do that.
But I'm happy to hear otherwise from you
as to what you think we should do
and how we go about conveying this
message.
It is an interesting situation, of course,
in terms of outreach and that I really
don't feel compelled to do more than we're
doing.
Time is short.
The likelihood that somebody is going to
come up to speed and
recognize what we're saying,
identify with it, act upon it,
educate themselves by reading these books
and demonstrating to Yahowah by their
response and by their contribution to his
family that they can be trusted and should
be allowed into one of the harvests and
live with him forevermore is so now
infinitesimally small.
There just isn't the time to do all
of that.
That's why there's a thousand years later
during the celebration of Sukah as we are
brought back into the garden and have the
opportunity to bring people up to speed.
So I just don't see it as being
a,
it's something that's going to make all
that much difference.
We'll use it,
these other sites for a singular purpose,
which is to point to the website and
the website will be our legacy.
And then of course, when we return,
we won't need the social media.
So that's where we are.
All right.
So where I left off on this,
we're still in the final word picture,
even though now we're covering the
greatest song ever written,
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr.
This is a song that begins fairly evenly
talking about the co-author of it,
who is Ethan ha Ezrachy,
and
what his background is,
why he came to be writing this,
goes into sharing what Ethan has come to
know about Yahowah over the millennia that
he has known him and spent time with
him.
Then there is a declarative statement
regarding Dowd being the one through whom
Yahowah established the covenant and that
Dowd is Yahowah's chosen one and the one
through whom Yahowah works.
Following that,
we turn to a number of statements that
help explain the working relationship that
Ethan in his various lives has with Dowd
in his various lives and how they work
together, as well as how,
in the last one we considered, how,
according to God,
Ethan comes back in another life as a
strong Zarowa in the last days with the
purpose of agitating the religious while
calming the situation around the Temple
Mount and ultimately defeating Rahab,
this integration of man and devil known
today as Donald Trump.
And so that's what we have just come
out of.
It was one of the most breathtaking
presentations of prophecy ever.
And yet it's something that heretofore no
one has ever even pondered.
So we're going to have a statement or
two,
again in Ethan's voice as he speaks of
what he knows of Yahowah.
And then...
We're gonna go through some twenty-five,
thirty statements in a row that are all
in Yahowah's voice,
where Ethan's role is just to record what
God says.
And what he has to say is just
absolutely overwhelming in favor of his
son,
completely obliterating Judaism and
Christianity.
while extolling the virtues of Dowd.
And then there will come to a section
of about ten statements that condemn the
religious world for depriving Dowd of
what he's doing,
of not recognizing that he is not only
the savior and the son of God,
but also the returning king and the one
who fulfilled Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym, our savior.
So the man who would come to love
Dowd more than anyone on earth came to
love Yahowah all the more.
And as a result,
he realized that God had to rescue,
or excuse me, I shouldn't say rescue,
to recuse.
To recuse is an interesting term.
It's not used typically outside of a legal
setting,
but perhaps it's appropriate here.
But God recused himself
from the ongoing discussions with his son,
trying to resolve his son's departure from
him, separation from him,
antagonism towards him.
And the reason God recused himself is that
Dowd became so belligerent,
he started to represent the belligerence
of Yisrael and
It's just as God says that it wasn't
appropriate for him to talk directly to
Israel anymore and that he would talk
through men of his choosing.
He did the same thing with Dowd.
He refused himself, took a step back,
and only spoke to Dowd through people of
his choosing.
Nathan was one of them.
Yowab, a general,
has an amazing speech at one point.
And then we read favorably of the ‘Amah
and of her baal, her husband.
And then this man, Ethan Ha Ezrachy.
It probably bears noting,
and I'm going to bring this up because
I got another just ridiculously absurd
letter from the Mother Goddess cult.
And in addition,
just to line all over themselves,
their big issue was that they wanted to
condemn me because of the references to
baal.
And what it shows,
and I think it's necessary for you to
recognize since this is how we
transitioned into the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr
yet again.
is that there are lots of terms that
Yahowah uses that Satan misappropriates
that are still very good terms.
As my good friend, Dr.
Jeff mentioned the other day, El,
it's the title God uses to describe
himself.
It's his role as God.
Do you know the name of the God
of the Canaanites?
El.
Asherah is the goddess that God routinely
condemns the prophets of Asherah,
the ones that ElYah went after.
It's true, isn't it?
One of the twelve tribes, however,
is named Asher.
When Leah, through a surrogate,
gave birth to Asher, what did she say?
That she would always be known.
as the most blessed and beneficial of
women, she would be Asher.
How can that term be negative if one
of the twelve children of Yisrael are
named Asher?
If Leah, the mother of Yahuwdah,
claims that she will be forever remembered
as Asher,
Do you know the preposition and verb and
noun, because it's all of those things,
that is used more in descriptions about
God and his relationships to his people
than any other?
It's Asher.
I typically render it as the,
to show the way to the benefits of
the relationship,
because when you consider
All of the five or six,
seven meanings of Asher and all of the
lexicons, it means all of those things.
It's a benefit, it's a joy,
it speaks of a relationship.
So Asher can't be a bad term,
can it?
So when the ‘Amah that is brought to
be in by Yahowah to serve as Dowd's surrogate
mother,
Whom Dowd praises Yahowah for,
thanks him for bringing this ‘Amah into his
life.
Calls him your ‘Amah that you brought into
my life.
Literally saving me from myself.
Asher is good, isn't it?
Even though there is a goddess named
Asherah.
Same thing is true with Baal.
Baal is the Hebrew word for Lord.
Yes,
it's also the Hebrew word for husband.
It is used in the last Mashal word
picture,
which is an exceedingly important piece of
divinely inspired literature.
Three times Baal is used and all three
times exceedingly favorably.
That the mission with the surrogate mother
of Dowd
who was the first to try to sober
her son up and to get him to
recognize who he was so that he would
listen to the message that was then
brought by her husband.
And he is referred to as Baal three
times.
What is the likelihood that Baal is
negative in that context?
Zero.
And yet they would say that if you
apply the term Baal to yourself,
then you're a false god, false prophet.
No.
That would mean that the last Mashal was
inspired by the devil.
Do you want to go there?
Do you want to recognize that it is
a term with the dark and the light
side?
And Yahowah was using it in this context,
in the context that we're continuing to
discuss how he intervened to resolve
his issue with his son because all of
humanity hung on it.
This resolution,
why did he refer to this man favorably
that was the surrogate mother,
his husband, so favorably as Baal?
I bring this up because of the fact
that the people that wrote this,
Well, okay, sure,
they're catering to a psychopath.
They've been played.
But they were obnoxious from the
beginning.
Never been anything other than obnoxious.
But nonetheless,
they produced their little translation of
a passage in Yirmimayh XXIII and completely
mangled it.
saying that to speak in the name of
Baal is to erase Yahowah's name,
when in fact we have done just the
opposite.
No one has been more aggressive in
restoring Yahowah's name than I have been.
Can't apply to me,
but yet they wouldn't apply it to me.
That's just how ignorant they are.
They listen to these programs and still
it's...
Boing!
It's just pathetic.
And if somebody has been exposed to this
information and knows Yahowah's name,
for example, and now won't even write it.
So back to Yod-Hey-Wah-Hey,
after the failed experiment of Yahowah or
Yahwah,
whatever it was that they tried to write
to get mommy and daddy goddess into the
name.
People that should know better.
After all this time, don't know better.
How in the world are you gonna take
somebody that knows nothing and invite
them in to explore what we have learned
and to process it and act upon it
and then engage in the time we have
remaining?
Very unlikely.
So we'll continue to pursue a Shabuwah
harvest that is
Lean in numbers, but great in quality.
So anyway, in this story,
it became obvious that the only way to
bring the man back to God,
bring their relationship back together so
they were back on speaking terms was to
integrate God's most trusted soul
and his wife into the story,
which is what God did.
So as the Zarowa,
he would not only rid the world of
Rahab,
such that Yahowah would be able to enjoy
his return back to earth,
and the men he conceived, well,
he would also restore his relationship
with his beloved son.
Obviously, we've been there and done that.
So the spiritual realm, it reads,
of the heavens is yours.
The material realm, the world,
and all that is in it are also
yours.
You yourself laid the foundation for them
and established them.
Mizmowr, eighty-nine eleven
it's an interesting thing that uh that
those who um speak against it's really
against religion although they think
they're speaking against god um put
restrictions on god on him well men taking
other men's and women's lives
without protecting others, you know,
that for whatever reason that, like,
Trump decides I want to go bomb Iran.
That's wrong.
If God says, you know, you're a liability,
you're harming even the opportunity that
anyone's going to come to know me and
engage in a relationship and therefore
receive the benefits that I have to offer,
and you yourself are harming
are never going to do so,
and you're limiting others so that you're
a net liability,
for God who created the universe,
this planet,
and life to truncate that life,
that was not a bad thing.
It's a positive thing.
And so by saying, listen,
heavens are yours, the universe is yours.
This world that we live on, this planet,
it's yours as well.
So God is in a position where he
can be merciful and truncate a life.
They would not have had that life if
it had not been for them.
Whatever they got was obviously more than
they deserved.
It's yours.
God laid the foundation for them.
He is at liberty to do with it
as he wishes.
And if none of us prove worthy,
he just ends the experiment.
It's over.
It's his.
It's no obligation to us beyond he's made
a series of promises,
but look at how infrequently they have
been honored versus ignored, rejected,
and demeaned.
Something to consider.
This next statement is,
the North where treasures are hidden and
the South at your right side,
you yourself have created them.
Tabor, the broken, and Tremon, the band,
will shout for joy in your name.
Ms.
Moore, Psalm, Eighty-Nine, Eleven,
and Twelve.
So, ten days after Rahab falls on Taruwah,
as a direct result of this intervention on
this intervention that will take place to
take him out on Taruwah.
On Kipurym,
Yahowah will arrive with Dowd to celebrate
the reconciliation of the relationship
with Yisrael.
By Sukah,
the formerly broken and banned will shout
for joy.
And boy,
will they have been broken and banned by
that time.
Anti-Semitism is literally celebrated in
social media.
This is the summation of man's story.
For the past six thousand years,
civilizations,
all through the integration of religion,
militarism and the caste system,
and often in league with Rahab,
have been oppressive, crushing,
controlling.
And while it's going to get worse before
it gets better, our liberation is nigh.
No longer crippled or accursed,
we will reenter Eden with Dowd as our
savior and as our king.
With the Tanim gone, Satan gone,
life will become happily ever after.
Shamaym and Eretz will be as one.
Four layers of separation,
the enormity of the gap between three and
seven dimensions will gradually dissolve
for one person and then another as we
become ever more like our God.
And in fact, just like Ethan Ha Ezrachy,
so will it be for every child of
the covenant.
You will be able to come and go
throughout the timeline of the future
taking on physical form when it is
appropriate,
staying as energy when that is superior
for you.
Not only will heaven's door be open,
each person will have access to the very
treasures of God.
Now, to a significant extent,
this is the result of what is achieved
through the collaboration of the Zarowa,
and there were three.
But let us never lose sight of the
fact that had Dowd not restored his
relationship with Yahowah and fulfilled the
spring Miqra'ey,
the fall Miqra'ey would remain unfulfilled
and forgotten.
God could not return.
Life would end.
Therefore,
to provide a more complete perspective on
life and the universe,
Ethan is pulling back the curtain.
Currently as physical beings,
mortal men and women are temporary
occupants of this little corner of
creation.
To reach beyond it,
to transcend dimensions and beyond the
three of which we are familiar,
to leap beyond all of this,
any of it, is by invitation only.
Access to the spiritual realm occurs once
we accept God's conditions and then
demonstrate that we are worthy of the
considerable upgrade which comes with
additional responsibility, capability,
and, of course, opportunity.
Without this step, we remain tabor,
separated, tremon, banned.
That's an incredibly important term.
Most people aren't just Tabor separated
from heaven.
They're banned from it.
And to be banned is even worse because
that means you're going to a place of
separation with heaven off limits.
The earth becomes man's grave.
Does it not?
The reason that there are treasures
depicted in the north in that statement
that I shared with you is that the
overwhelming preponderance of Jews outside
of Israel live north of Jerusalem and in
Europe and North America.
And the left hand is where we would
find Yada.
And while on the other hand,
the south represents the right side,
which is where Dowd is positioned.
Tabor and
Tremon were chosen because Ethan knows
that the Israelites will be shattered and
crushed in the centuries to come.
But it is those who were Tabor banned
from their homeland,
but remained Tremon devoted to it,
who will be among those singing for joy
upon Dowd's triumphant return.
A few tears will be shed as well.
And in this regard,
Haram's passage from Hebrew to Aramaic and
Arabic would be particularly haunting
because Jews were actually demonized under
the label Haram.
Now, adding to the intrigue,
Tabor is a high hill in lower Galilee.
It is the location of the battle that
Deborah and Barak waged against the
Canaanites.
This is where in fifty-five CE also ten
thousand Yahuwdym were slaughtered by the
Romans.
Countless more fell on the slopes in
sixty-six CE when Vespasian was dispatched
by Nero to subdue Yahuwdym.
As for Tirmone,
this mountain is in the Golan along the
Israeli, Syrian, and Lebanese border.
It was the site of intense battles in
the Six-Day War and also on the Yom
Kippur War
Yowm Kipurym War in,
in 1973
against muslims
Now
it
serves as
an Israeli
obeservation post
to monitor
Syrian and
Lebanese jihadists
Particularly relevant
Tremon was incorporated into Arabic and is
used to denigrate, ban,
and to curse Jews throughout the ages.
Our liberation would not come too soon,
or would it be easily won?
There would be three Zarowa, one,
early on during the Exodus,
one at the midpoint of the transition from
the garden and back to the garden,
one at the very end.
And they would offer the full measure of
devotion to rid the world of man's trash.
And there we find these men so enmeshed
that it is not until Ethan has more
fully established his case that one
actually appears distinct from the other.
It reads, to approach you,
and Ethan is speaking to Yahowah,
whom he knows quite well,
to approach you and on your behalf,
the Zarowa,
the strong arm cultivating the harvest on
behalf of the sacrificial lamb,
with authority and influence, courage,
character, and conviction.
It's im gabuwrah.
That's something that is attributed both
to Dowd and to the Choter.
The will to fight,
the capacity to perform,
doing what is required to accomplish
anything that needs to be done, valiant,
heroic, prominent, pervasive.
It's, of course, the feminine of gibowr,
a mighty warrior, a valiant soldier,
and a capable defender,
a courageous hero that is worth noting.
The root of course is Gabar,
which is a empowered man who prevails by
fighting aggressively.
One of the things I like about Gibowrah
is that way too much is made of
feminine and masculine entities as they
relate to titles as to who they apply
to.
Gabar is,
strictly a masculine reference,
it means man.
And so gabuwrah is,
by having the feminine ending on it,
is being used as an adjective to explain
a noun that has been used previously that
would have been feminine in Hebrew,
but describing the qualities of a man.
And what typically happens when you go
from Adam to Adamah, par, bull, to Parah,
productive bull, is that,
and gibowr to Gabuwrah,
is that it is more expansive.
You know, for example,
you would add compassion to courage.
You would add a sense of being valiant
to heroic.
The person is not just powerful,
but they're persuasive.
You're completing the concept of it.
It's as if you were to look at
the difference between a man by himself
and a man with a woman that he
loves and she loves him in return and
they conceive children and raise them
In a nurturing and protective productive
environment they become much more than
either of them are independently and so
man with woman.
is more than a man by himself,
a man like Dowd who.
was really a wonderful example of somebody
who integrated cerebral acumen with
emotional passion.
Becomes really a study in Gibowr becoming
Gibowr.
Anyway,
that's the term that was used here.
Will be your confident and capable hand,
your bold and robust,
your resolute influence.
This is azaz, based on o's.
Raised up high and exalted at your right
side.
It says 89:13
So let me read the whole thing through
and then we'll consider some insights.
So to approach you.
So you want to come near Yahowah and
on your behalf, serving you.
The Zarowa,
strong arm cultivating the harvest for the
sacrificial lamb with authority and
influence, courage, character,
and conviction will be your confident,
capable hand, your bold, robust,
and resolute influence raised up high and
exalted at your right side for having been
right about you.
And it's also interesting here that before
we just say, well,
this has to be right side,
it is based on Yam, it's Yamyn.
And therefore it also means from the sea.
So while both Zarowa,
the sacrificial lamb and the one
cultivating the harvest are designated by
God as gibowr, capable and courageous.
Both are also said to be Azaz, confident,
powerful.
Only one stands at Yahowah's Yamyn,
right side, and that would be Dowd.
So while Yada is the Zarowa who crushes
Rahab,
Dowd is the one who enables our approach
to God and who,
by being his firstborn son,
is positioned as the Almighty's right
hand.
By fulfilling Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
he demonstrated that he is worthy of this
distinction, which I think, in fact,
I know.
The title Zarowa is vastly more important
than the title Messiah, even Melech, king,
particularly pursuant to God and the
interaction between men and God.
So in this way,
Ethan is further establishing his kinship
with the king.
They were both manifest as the strong arm
of God,
albeit serving at different times and
occasions.
in addition to fulfilling the fall Mowedym
the final Zarowa would also uh reacquaint
israel with the merits and achievements of
the most formidable Zarowa Dowd and while
this says that his Zarowa are powerful and
strong men of resolute character much of
which they achieve and which they are um
Certainly,
Yahowah facilitates this through his Ruwach
spirit so that it is a collaborative
effort.
Nobody does this on their own.
And in this way,
their unique personalities,
even their attributes and their attitudes
still come to the fore,
which helps to differentiate them
somewhat, which is something God wants.
While their love of Yah is consistent
This is particularly true during the
fulfillment of the Miqra'ey.
Now, this being known, at the moment,
Dowd was wrong about God.
But when he was right,
and he would be again,
he was celebrated as the most Tsadaq,
correct, of all people who ever lived.
Moreover, by fulfilling Matsah,
he removed our guilt and his own,
absolving us of judgment.
This reads,
being correct and vindicating regarding
executing good judgment and justly
resolving disputes serve as the foundation
of your throne.
Loyalty, devotion and love, favoritism,
affection, generosity, and kindness,
along with a steadfast commitment to the
truth, reliability, and integrity,
dependability.
It's from 'emuwn, enduring truth.
And 'aman, to support, confirm,
and uphold that which is trustworthy and
reliable,
verifiable and confirming that which is
correct.
Encounter those who enter your presence.
qadam paneh atah
Embrace those who come to meet you.
Mizmowr, Lyrics Psalm, Eighty-Nine, Fourteen.
So up to this point,
and with only one notable citation,
Ethan has been talking to Yahowah,
telling us what he knows to be true
about God, about Dowd,
and about himself even.
The lone exception is when he quoted
Yahowah addressing his son.
And so while God has created a throne
for Dowd, in this case, I think Atah,
you, is addressing Yahowah's Kishe.
Therefore,
Ethan is reaffirming that God is loyal and
loving,
trustworthy and reliable to the very core
of his being.
These attributes are literally
foundational to God's nature.
Now, should you wonder why,
Ethan,
continues to report on Yahowah's devotion
and his integrity.
I think the reasons are many.
Having spent over two millennia with God
and Shamaym,
Well,
his testimony is that of an eyewitness and
therefore it's relevant.
There aren't many people that you're going
to be able to hear from that have
come to know Yahowah and his natural
environment for that period of time,
and then can convey it to us.
Ethan is the ultimate witness to Yahowah's
nature.
He knows also that it is essential that
Dowd and we come to know Yah,
to love him and to rely upon him.
Therefore,
everything written in this song hinges on
who God is.
Ethan's testimony and ours when speaking
of him is valid because Yahowah has
demonstrated that he is trustworthy.
This also means that when religious
scriptures are contrary to what God has
previously revealed,
they are always wrong.
That's my issue with the Talmud,
the New Testament, and the Quran.
As it pertains to Dowd,
it was essential that he accept this
accounting of Yahowah.
because he is the one through whom Yahowah
would establish the covenant.
His return to favor would put him on
the path to becoming our savior while
affirming his status as the chosen one,
the promised one who would serve as God's
coworker.
None of that would matter, would it?
If not for Yahowah's credibility,
otherwise.
Crucifixion is just a ghoulish event.
A trip to hell is meaningless.
So Nathan wasn't inserted into this moment
in time to make these claims on his
own initiative.
And it is not Ha-Ezrachy who will affirm
that Dowd is the Messiah,
the son of God and the returning king,
but Yahowah himself.
Ethan is the conduit for divine
revelation,
and all of the essential affirmations are
in Yahowah's voice,
as we shall soon discover.
Therefore, with this in mind,
it is Yahowah who, ha Ezrachy,
is proclaiming to be tsadaq, right, fair,
moral, and vindicating.
Now,
one last thought before we move on to
the next statement.
Having been there,
Heaven's Guide is revealing that as the
covenant family enter God's presence,
they're going to perceive,
we will perceive, Yahowah,
as Ethan has come to know him.
And as he is presenting him,
loyal, devoted, loving, affectionate,
honest, fair, reliable.
Those are comforting terms, aren't they?
Particularly in a relationship.
Ethan Ha Ezrachy obviously recognizes
that he is far more than a delivery
boy.
And God is much more than just a
king.
A dowd is far more than just a
And so while Yahowah's credibility is what
matters most,
God knows that mankind's perceptions of
his integrity hinge to a significant
extent on that of those speaking for him.
Did you ever think that through?
God knows that mankind's perceptions of
his integrity
hinged to a very significant extent on
that of those speaking for him.
This is why Yahowah was so condescending
when denouncing Miriam's attempt to insert
herself into the narrative and to talk
over Moshe.
It is why God stopped communicating with
and through Dowd after he lost credibility
for the Bathsheba incident and why it had
to be restored for two-way communication
to resume.
And even today,
Yada's credibility is essential to,
particularly at this last date,
this late date.
So God has overtly condemned,
putting this batch into Sheowl,
those who have tried to erode it.
It's the only rational answer.
Ethan recognized that the king would be
more attuned to this message if he knew
that he was listening to a peer rather
than to one of the many subjects Dowd
was currently ignoring.
And so,
After speaking of himself in the
dedication,
parts of the first and second verses
citing Yahowah's endorsement of Dowd in the
third and fourth stanzas,
and revealing what he knows to be true
about Yahowah in the first, second, fifth,
and sixth through ninth verses,
Ethan inserted something of himself again.
when he spoke of Dowd in the ninth
and tenth statements.
Thereafter,
he directed our attention back to God in
the eleventh, twelfth,
and fourteenth refrains.
It was in the thirteenth verse that Ethan
returned to speak of the king prior to
injecting something pertinent regarding
himself in this next stanza.
It reads, Delighted to show the way,
because blessed, Ashry,
are the people who are aware of and
respect Yada's acknowledgement.
Yada,
who are familiar and acquainted with,
who learn about,
and make known,
who comprehend and understand Yada's
revelations.
It was written in the cal.
Interpret this literally.
Participle.
It's both a noun and it's actionable.
Masculine plural.
Why?
Because there's many aspects of this.
Be aware, respect, yada.
Acknowledge what he has to say regarding
Tarula, heralding, trumpeting,
contributing, and conveying the message.
Basis of the fifth and fifth of the
seventh Miqra'ey,
the final gleaning of Yisrael,
who walk
into the light of your presence, Yahowah.
This is Mizmowr Psalm, Eighty-Nine,
Fifteen.
Take that from the beginning again.
Asherah.
Asherah is the personalization of Asher.
Yes, Asherah is one of those terms.
That's why I thought it was so interesting
that there was a group out there that
thinks Baal is bad, bad, bad.
But Asher,
they didn't want to touch because, well,
Well,
when the prophets of Asherah are assailed
by ElYah,
he is also assailing the prophets of Baal.
He's not saying that Asherah or Baal are
derogatory terms.
He said that those who are making
religious pronouncements regarding them
are bad.
And here we have another affirmation that
Asher is a marvelous term.
This is Asher with a yod.
Added to it,
delighted to show the way because blessed,
happy to reveal the proper path to the
relationship, to be treated favorably.
It's from Asher,
enjoying the benefits of the relationship
by having been shown the steps to walk
to get the most out of life and
Ani, me.
So representing the first word I
translated into Samuel seven.
If it wasn't for Asher,
we wouldn't be here.
So delighted to show the way because
blessed are the people,
are the family members who are aware of
and respect Yada's acknowledgement of
taruwah, of heralding, of trumpets,
of contributing by conveying the message,
who walk into the light of your presence,
Yahowah,
Asher, as I have said,
presented here as ashery,
is essential to the bonding between Ethan
and Dowd.
It is the first word written exactly this
way that the king wrote in the first
Mizmowr.
And it is the first word I translated,
doing so in one of the most famous
prophecies regarding Dowd.
and second, Samuel seven.
It speaks of the path to the covenant
and the blessings associated with it,
but it's a relational term,
bringing us together.
Unlike the initial use of yadol,
this was written in the participle,
I should say, of yada,
Computers are not playing nicely with one
another as it relates to the superscript.
And so in this case,
it was the superscript of the ayin that
became a capital I.
Who knows how that happened?
But it nonetheless did work.
We're trying to go back and add these
superscripts so that you know.
For example, yada.
Would you expect it to have an aleph,
which shows the ram, the ox,
and leadership protection as the closing
sound, making that A sound?
Or would you would expect yada to have
the I,
which shows perceptions and
the ability to perceive what is happening
around you.
When the word means to know, to perceive,
to understand, okay, I cheated.
I told you the answer, didn't I?
And so that's one of the advantages of
doing these superscripts is that when you
see that yada, for example,
is written with a yod, a daleth,
and with the ayin,
you know that it is the hand that
opens the door
to being observant.
So it's helpful to know that's the case.
Now,
if I could just get the word to
do what it's supposed to do,
which is when you embed a font,
it's supposed to properly present it,
but it just wouldn't do it here.
So unlike the first time that Yada
appeared,
And this,
Mizmowr
I was very frank and said it was
written in the imperfect, but not the,
as it was here, the participle.
This was written in the participle form.
And that means that it,
declaring that at this moment,
there will be those who are aware of
and will respect yada.
It is actionable in describing yada.
They're acknowledging Yahowah's role in
Taruwah as he purges the final remnant of
Yisrael.
And the fact that Taruwah and Yada are
juxtaposed,
to be familiar with and respect,
to be aware of Yada's role in Taruwah,
that's pretty tough to argue with,
isn't it?
At this point, Ethan has disclosed.
that in his next life he will be,
well, probably not his next one.
He'll have a couple of visits between this
one and that one.
But in his last,
when he serves as the zerowa that takes
down Rahab, he will be known as Yada.
That's what he's saying.
And that Yada's most important day will
be Taruwah.
The day he purchased the final remnant of
Yisrael of their guilt,
such that they are prepared for the return
of Yahowah and Dowd.
So in this way,
they will be able to walk into the
very light of Yahowah's presence.
Therefore,
Ethan is saying that a time will come
when he, as Yada, will fulfill Taruwah,
just as Dowd would enable the promises of
Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
The king's sacrifice would not be in vain.
because of what will be accomplished
twenty centuries thereafter.
And Ethan knows this to be true,
because in heaven he would have been able
to witness the future and report back to
us what he had seen.
We've passed the hour,
and so I'm going to leave this next
statement for our next program.
I think that is a wonderful place for
us to end, for us to salah,
pause now,
and contemplate the implications of what
Ethan just revealed as to how he was
working with Yahowah at this moment to
resolve the issues that separated God from
his beloved son, Dowd,
and that he would return as Yada and
that on Taruwah would perform
in such a way that it allows the
children of Israel to approach the very
light of God.
Tells you that our interpretations of what
God is conveying here are accurate,
powerful, important.
So I thank you for listening.
I apologize for my rant on social media.
I'm exceedingly frustrated by the gross
impropriety of it all.
And I am thrilled with the development of
the website and what it now offers us.
And I'm so looking forward to developing
it so that it can offer everything that
we find on social media,
but so much more and without the constant
frustration.
Nothing could be better.
And I think of where we were for
four of the twenty five years,
most of that time,
all we had was a website,
no interaction at all.
So we had a website then for maybe
ten years we had a website and a
audio blog, crude audio blog.
And now we have so much more and
we have so much more only using a
platform to stream these
yellow blocks that you can interact on and
then become part of the of the record
and they're integrated into the area site.
So I think we have more than what
needs to be offered.
And cutting back and constraining some of
the activity,
particularly as we pull back from those
places where we're clearly not wanted.
So anyway, that's my thoughts.
I welcome your insights.
Please share them with me.
And thank you again for listening.
You have a wonderful evening.
God bless.
Hey there.
Thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.